# launchpartner

This app is deployed live on heroku at -- https://safe-chamber-33749.herokuapp.com/

In this application "People Space" users can signup for an account to upload an individual account,see other profiles that contains a users name, image and short bio and lets them edit their own account. Any guest can see any account however with simply adding the component which renders all users to a protected route this functionality can easily be restricted to Authorized users.

Users passwords are encrypted upon storage along with sending a jsonwebtoken to the front end in the event that the application would be built with more security in the future. Passport handles the middleware functions of authenticating users. AWS S3 was used for image storage and retrieval. If The application was not hosted on heroku and my personal hosting platform I would most likely handle image storage within the hosting environment. I have implemented a Redux store in order to handle auth events and loading in users profiles, in this way any number of components can easily have the state accessible to them to use for increased functionality or application scaling along with ease of access to data.


I built this small application with scale in mind so it leans heavily on reusable components, a auth system that can easily handle more private routes and features can be added relatively quickly. Adding a posts and comments section would only need a new component, mongoose model and route to save a users id along with their name next to comments on another users account, these can be easily protected against users who are not signed into the app with the protected routes and checks for authenticated users. 

I anticipated building out a custom auth system would showcase more of my skill however if I were to have wired up Google Oauth I would have either used a React Library such as React-Google-login, passport Google Strategy or a custom solution in which I would have a second login route where a user would log in with Google. After Getting my Oauth key and secret and setting them into the proper component the Google login function would return a Google ID, the users email and name. With this I would save this to my database with a non-required field "googleID" after saving the new user they would be prompted to add a description to their profile along with an image and password(this is for use cases when a user does not log in with Oauth but can still access their account information), Future logins with the OAuth would search the database for their Google ID to find the correct user. This can be easily replicated for other OAuth services such as Linkedin or Facebook.  Users Could then optionally sign into their account with either OAuth or email and password and have access to their information.
